# Insta Job
Insta Job is a job search web site that our team created to help individuals that share our same profession search for a job. Our website uses a relational database which will be the core topic covered in the sections to come. Databases are a crucial tool for organizing and accessing data using technology. As technology advances more and more data is being collected databases are where we store this data. Due to the amount of data handling it is more crucial than ever to understand how to create, store and access data. After all, what is the point of having information if you cannot easily get to it?
Our intention in this paper is to use our website as an example on how to correctly implement a relational database on a small scale. This will be our step by step process from laying out the requirements all the way to physically creating our database. Even after creation we will cover how we re-organized our design to ensure normalization and the most effective ways to access and store our data using realistic queries as examples with the utility that each of them serve.  
# Demo
[Instajob Link] (http://instajob.epizy.com/index.php)
# Run by using xampp (apache, mySQL)
After running xampp, download the zipfile and exact it inside the htdocs folder of the xampp folder. Goes in the browser and type localhost/instajob folder which will lead to the main page. But also open a new page type localhost/phpmyadmin and create a new database call instajob and insert the SQL inside the folder to successfully create the database.
 
## Objective 
The main objective of our team for this project is to develop a job search website that focuses mainly on STEM fields such as Computer Science and Engineering. We are inspired by existing websites like Indeed, Glassdoor, and Monster. Although these websites provide great support and act as a good resource for finding employment, we still think there are limited resources provided to truly help people especially in STEM fields to land their desire job. An added feature of how website is to unite recruiters with job seekers to further aid the process.
As a team we have come up with a solution to try and tackle the problem. The main function of our website will be similar to existing websites mentioned, with an option for users to search for jobs in their desired locations. The website will also display description of each jobs, job’s requirement and average salaries of a variety of jobs offer by different companies. We will be using existing open source APIs from [NEEDS TO BE FILLED] to help achieve this functionality. All other basic functionalities that a job search engine should have will also be implemented. However, the main difference that our website offers is that upon sign up, users will specify their type. The type will be in two categories, one of which is a “casual user” type, and the other is a “recruiter” type. The idea behind this is that for the casual user type, we will ask them to post a resume upon registration with our system, so that future employers can have access to them. As for the recruiter type, they do not need to have resume uploaded, however we will be asking information about where they work, what department they are from, and most importantly their professional contact information. With this basic information, the casual user type in our system will be able to easily reach out to recruiters from companies that they desire to apply for or work for. On the other end, users in our system identified as recruiter type will have access to the other type which includes access to their resumes (this only applies for recruiter type), and contact information. Apart from that, we have also taken into consideration of the mental aspect of job hunting when coming up with this solution. As job seekers ourselves, it can be hard and discouraging at times when receiving or getting rejections one after another. So, with this functionality, we believe that it will increase the chances of people landing a job at their desired company or at the very least land an interview with the company they have applied for.
Our other objective is to create a community of like-minded individuals who share the same passion and love for the same fields, and people who share the same vision and goal of landing an employment that will change their lives’, and their families’. We also want to promote positive attitude and boost confidence of people who have a hard time of finding an employment, so that they would continue to seek forward and not give in.

## Design & Implementation
In the beginning of the project, we have a lot of discussions about how to go about our design of the web interface. The main part of the discussion was what web languages we wanted to utilize for our website. For the front-end design, one of our team members was an expert with HTML/CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript’s framework especially JQuery, and have had a lot of experiences working with them. So, he was responsible for all the front end design of the web interface. On the other hand, we have a little disagreement about what language to use for the back-end of the web. All of us are very comfortable with Java, but realized that it is not the most ideal language to use. Some of us recommended that we use Python for it, however there is another problem with this. Only some of us are comfortable with the language. With that, we went to our last resort, and that was PHP. We felt that PHP is the easiest language to use, and it is very similar to Java. So, it was quick to pick up, and it is very 
More importantly, our database schema included a lot of redundancy across tables. The Entity Relationship (ER) diagram was also the key factor in helping us fix and re-visit our relational schema.
During the whole process, one particular thing that we were proud of and glad that we did well was documenting and recording our progress, and as a team were very flexible in responding to changes in our development process. As a team, we also have clear priorities from the start, and have started each phase very early, so we have enough time to make any late minutes changes. Another aspect of our success in the development was we have great communications between one another, and everybody was working for one another. The team spirit was crucial especially knowing that all of us have other responsibilities in life.  


